refine UDF guide doc (#320)
NVIDIA/spark-rapids-examples: examples/UDF-Examples/RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs/README.md

# RAPIDS Accelerated UDF Examples
This project contains sample implementations of RAPIDS accelerated user-defined functions.

> The ideal solution would be usually if you can translate UDFs to dataframe or SQL operation, besides doing that translation, 
> we also provide an easy-to-use feature called [UDF compiler extension](https://nvidia.github.io/spark-rapids/docs/additional-functionality/udf-to-catalyst-expressions.html) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ideal solution would be to replace the UDF with a series of DataFrame or SQL operations. If that is not possible, we also provide a [UDF compiler extension](https://nvidia.github.io/spark-rapids/docs/additional-functionality/udf-to-catalyst-expressions.html) 
```

> to translate UDFs to Catalyst expressions. The extension is limited to only support compiling simple operations, so you can also implement

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to translate UDFs to Catalyst expressions. The extension is limited to only support compiling simple operations, For complitcated cases, you can choose to implement
```

> to translate UDFs to Catalyst expressions. The extension is limited to only support compiling simple operations, For complitcated cases, you can choose to implement
> a RAPIDS Accelerated UDF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to translate UDFs to Catalyst expressions. The extension is limited to only support compiling simple operations.
For complicated cases, you can choose to implement a RAPIDS Accelerated UDF.
```

## Spark Scala UDF Examples

> This is the best and simplest demo for us to getting started. From the code you can see there is an original CPU implementation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the simplest demo for getting started. From the code you can see there is an original CPU implementation 
```

and this is how we write in a CPU way, we only need to implement the RapidsUDF interface which provides a single method we need to override called
evaluateColumnar. The CPU URLDecode function process the input row by row, but the GPU evaluateColumnar takes the number of rows and the number of 
columns, then return a cudf columnvector, because GPU get its speed by doing operations on many rows at a time, 

> this is the way it can run faster than the CPU. In the evaluateColumnar function, there is a cudf implementation of URL decode 

Reviewer: The paragraph here is describing details specific to URLDecode, but there are other examples here that are not URL decode.

Author: Updated the description to `URLDecode`

> and this is how we write in a CPU way, we only need to implement the RapidsUDF interface which provides a single method we need to override called
> evaluateColumnar. The CPU URLDecode function process the input row by row, but the GPU evaluateColumnar takes the number of rows and the number of 
> columns, then return a cudf columnvector, because GPU get its speed by doing operations on many rows at a time, 
> this is the way it can run faster than the CPU. In the evaluateColumnar function, there is a cudf implementation of URL decode 
> that we're leveraging, so we don't need to write any native C++ code, this is all done through the [Java APIs of RAPIDS cudf](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/cudf-java/stable).
> The benefit to implement in Java API is ease of development, but the memory model is not friendly for doing GPU operations
> because JVM make the assumption that everything we're trying to do is on the heap memory, we need to free them in a timely manner with many try finally
> blocks, and since the limitation of GPU memory, the more intermediate products you build the more you're going to be GPU memory bandwidth bound.
> Note that we need to implement both CPU and GPU functions to avoid if the operation failed to CPU then UDF will crash the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided by the `apply` method. We only need to implement the RapidsUDF interface which provides a single method we need to override called
`evaluateColumnar`. The CPU URLDecode function processes the input row by row, but the GPU evaluateColumnar returns a cudf ColumnVector, because the GPU get its speed by performing operations on many rows at a time. In the `evaluateColumnar` function, there is a cudf implementation of URL decode 
that we're leveraging, so we don't need to write any native C++ code. This is all done through the [Java APIs of RAPIDS cudf](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/cudf-java/stable).
The benefit to implement via the Java API is ease of development, but the memory model is not friendly for doing GPU operations
because the JVM makes the assumption that everything we're trying to do is in heap memory. We need to free the GPU resources in a timely manner with try-finally blocks.
Note that we need to implement both CPU and GPU functions so the UDF will still work if a higher-level operation involving the RAPIDS accelerated UDF falls back to the CPU.
```

# RAPIDS Accelerated UDF Examples

This project contains sample implementations of RAPIDS accelerated user-defined functions.

The ideal solution would be to replace the UDF with a series of DataFrame or SQL operations. If that
is not possible, we also provide
a [UDF compiler extension](https://nvidia.github.io/spark-rapids/docs/additional-functionality/udf-to-catalyst-expressions.html)
to translate UDFs to Catalyst expressions. The extension is limited to only support compiling simple

> operations. For complicated cases, you can choose to implement a RAPIDS Accelerated UDF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operations. For complicated cases, you can choose to implement a RAPIDS accelerated UDF.
```

  [Java APIs of RAPIDS cudf](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/cudf-java/stable)

## Spark Java UDF Examples
Below are some showcases about implementing RAPIDS accelerated scala UDF by JNI binding codes and native code.
If there is no existing simple Java API we could leverage, we can write native custom code.

> The Java class for the UDF is similar as the previous URLDecode/URLEncode demo, we need to implement a cosineSimilarity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Java class for the UDF is similar as the previous URLDecode/URLEncode demo. We need to implement a cosineSimilarity
```

function in C++ code and goes into the native code as quickly as possible, because it is easier to write the code

> safely. In the native code, it `reinterpret_cast` the input to columnview, do some sanity checking and convert to list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
safely. In the native code, it `reinterpret_cast` the input to a column view, do some sanity checking and convert to list
```

> columnviews, then compute the cosine similarity, finally return the unique pointer to a column, release the underlying resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
column views, then compute the cosine similarity, finally return the unique pointer to a column, release the underlying resources.
```

> columnviews, then compute the cosine similarity, finally return the unique pointer to a column, release the underlying resources.

Reviewer: This is basically parroting the code, and honestly a lot of what is discussed in this document would be better placed as comments in the example code.  If we need to write a paragraph to discuss how the code should work, the code needs more comments.

Author: add some comments in the code.

## Spark Java UDF Examples

> Below are some showcases about implementing RAPIDS accelerated scala UDF by JNI binding codes and
> native code. If there is no existing simple Java API we could leverage, we can write native custom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are some examples for implementing RAPIDS accelerated Scala UDF via JNI and
native code. If there is no existing simple Java API we could leverage, we can write native custom
```

  between two float vectors using [native code](src/main/cpp/src)

## Hive UDF Examples

> Below are some showcases about implementing RAPIDS accelerated hive UDF by JNI binding codes and native code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are some showcases about implementing RAPIDS accelerated Hive UDF by JNI binding codes and native code.
```

## Hive UDF Examples

> Below are some showcases about implementing RAPIDS accelerated Hive UDF by JNI binding codes and
> native code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are some examples for implementing RAPIDS accelerated Hive UDF via JNI and
native code.
```

  [native code](src/main/cpp/src) to count words in strings

## Building and run the tests without Native Code Examples

Some UDF examples use native code in their implementation. Building the native code requires a
libcudf build environment, so these examples do not build by default.

### Prerequisites

Download Spark and set SPARK_HOME environment variable. Refer

> to [Prerequisites](../../../docs/get-started/xgboost-examples/on-prem-cluster/standalone-python.md#Prerequisites)  

Reviewer: This link is pointing to things that say we need xgboost, cudf, numpy, NCCL, and a bunch of other things we do not need for this example.

Author: yes, we just need a standalone env with spark-rapids enabled, update the link

The `Dockerfile` in this directory can be used to setup a Docker image that provides a libcudf build
environment. This repository will either need to be cloned or mounted into a container using that
Docker image. The `Dockerfile` contains build arguments to control the Linux version, CUDA version,
and other settings. See the top of the `Dockerfile` for details.

First install docker and [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker)

Run the following commands to build and start a docker

```bash
cd spark-rapids-examples/examples/UDF-Examples/RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs
docker build -t my-local:my-udf-example-ubuntu .
nvidia-docker run -it my-local:my-udf-example-ubuntu
```

### Build the udf-examples jar

In the Docker container, clone the code and compile.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids-examples.git
cd spark-rapids-examples/examples/UDF-Examples/RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs
mvn clean package -Pudf-native-examples
```

The build could take a long time (e.g.: 1.5 hours). Then the rapids-4-spark-udf-examples*.jar is
generated under RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs/target directory.

### Run all the examples including native examples in the docker

> Download [Apache Spark](https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html) and set `SPARK_HOME` environment variable.

Reviewer: Replicating instructions here increases the maintenance burden and makes it likely that the copies get out of sync over time.  This should reference the previous section as the original text was worded (just didn't actually link it properly).  The link can just be something like `See the above [Prerequisites section](#prerequisites)`.

Author: updated

Run the following command to build and run tests

```bash
mvn clean package
./run_pyspark_from_build.sh -m "not rapids_udf_example_native"
```

## Building with Native Code Examples and run test cases

The `udf-native-examples` Maven profile can be used to include the native UDF examples in the build,
i.e.: specify
`-Pudf-native-examples` on the `mvn` command-line.

### Creating a libcudf Build Environment

Building the native code requires a libcudf build environment.  
The `Dockerfile` in this directory can be used to setup a Docker image that provides a libcudf build
environment. This repository will either need to be cloned or mounted into a container using that
Docker image. The `Dockerfile` contains build arguments to control the Linux version, CUDA version,
and other settings. See the top of the `Dockerfile` for details.

First install docker and [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker)

Run the following commands to build and start a docker

```bash
cd spark-rapids-examples/examples/UDF-Examples/RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs
docker build -t my-local:my-udf-example-ubuntu .
nvidia-docker run -it my-local:my-udf-example-ubuntu
```

### Build the udf-examples jar

> In the docker, clone the code and compile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Docker container, clone the code and compile.
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids-examples.git
cd spark-rapids-examples/examples/UDF-Examples/RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs
mvn clean package -Pudf-native-examples
```

> The building will spend some time like 1.5 hours. Then the rapids-4-spark-udf-examples*.jar is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build could take a long time (e.g.: 1.5 hours). Then the rapids-4-spark-udf-examples*.jar is
```

generated under RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs/target directory.

### Run all the examples including native examples in the docker

Download Spark and set SPARK_HOME environment variable. Refer
to [Prerequisites](../../../docs/get-started/xgboost-examples/on-prem-cluster/standalone-python.md#Prerequisites)   
Set SPARK_HOME environment variable.

```
export SPARK_HOME=path-to-spark
```

> Install python 3.8+, then install pytest, pyspark, sre_yield, findspark by using pip or conda. See

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install Python 3.8+, then install pytest, pyspark, sre_yield, findspark by using pip or conda. See
```

> above Prerequisites section

Reviewer: Nit: Make `Prerequisites` a link to the corresponding section.

Author: updated

```
./run_pyspark_from_build.sh
```

## How to run the Native UDFs on Spark local mode

First finish the steps in "Building with Native Code Examples and run test cases" section, then do

> the following in the docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the following inside the Docker container.
```

environment. This repository will either need to be cloned or mounted into a container using that
Docker image. The `Dockerfile` contains build arguments to control the Linux version, CUDA version,
and other settings. See the top of the `Dockerfile` for details.

First install docker and [nvidia-docker](https://github.com/NVIDIA/nvidia-docker)

Run the following commands to build and start a docker

```bash
cd spark-rapids-examples/examples/UDF-Examples/RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs
docker build -t my-local:my-udf-example-ubuntu .
nvidia-docker run -it my-local:my-udf-example-ubuntu
```

### Build the udf-examples jar

In the Docker container, clone the code and compile.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids-examples.git
cd spark-rapids-examples/examples/UDF-Examples/RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs
mvn clean package -Pudf-native-examples
```

The build could take a long time (e.g.: 1.5 hours). Then the rapids-4-spark-udf-examples*.jar is
generated under RAPIDS-accelerated-UDFs/target directory.

### Run all the examples including native examples in the docker

Download Spark and set SPARK_HOME environment variable. Refer

> to [Prerequisites](../../../docs/get-started/xgboost-examples/on-prem-cluster/standalone-python.md#Prerequisites)   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to [Prerequisites](../../../docs/get-started/xgboost-examples/on-prem-cluster/standalone-python.md#Prerequisites).
```

> to [Prerequisites](../../../docs/get-started/xgboost-examples/on-prem-cluster/standalone-python.md#Prerequisites)   

Reviewer: This link is pointing to things that say we need xgboost, cudf, numpy, NCCL, and a bunch of other things we do not need for this example.

Author: yes, we just need a standalone env with spark-rapids enabled, update the link

Set SPARK_HOME environment variable.

```
export SPARK_HOME=path-to-spark
```

Install Python 3.8+, then install pytest, pyspark, sre_yield, findspark by using pip or conda. See

> above [Prerequisites](../../../docs/get-started/xgboost-examples/on-prem-cluster/standalone-python.md#Prerequisites)

Reviewer: The text says the prerequisites section above, but it links to a completely separate document?  Also the link is pointing to things that say we need xgboost, cudf, numpy, NCCL, and a bunch of other things we do not need for this example.

Author: yes, we just need a standalone env with spark-rapids enabled, update the link

> above [Prerequisites](https://docs.nvidia.com/spark-rapids/user-guide/latest/getting-started/on-premise.html#spark-standalone-cluster)

Reviewer: The test says it's linking to the above Prerequisites section but then the link doesn't point there.

Author: Verify the scripts and update the doc, we don't need to install `pyspark` and `findspark ` lib.

spark.sql("select wordcount(c1) from tab group by c1").explain()
```

Refer to

> the [on-premises Spark documentation](../../../docs/get-started/xgboost-examples/on-prem-cluster) to

Reviewer: This is still linking to an xgboost example setup, probably should be the same link as other Spark setup links above.

Author: updated
